Kant’s Analytic of the Sublime: (*Ref. FROM - http://www.aquestionofexistence.com/Aquestionofexistence/Aesthetics/Entries/2014/6/28_Kants_Critique_of_Judgment__SUBLIME.html)
(cf., Ross, pp. 113-42)

To offer a taste of what is to come, let’s begin with a Summary of Kant’s Analytic of the Sublime: 

The free play of the imagination, in the estimation of the Beautiful, offers us a taste of ambrosia, it pleases.  In the Sublime, the imagination, that which receives the presentation, offers us awe.  Awe can be magnificent and pleasing, or it can be capable of producing in us something like fear.  While the Beautiful deals with the form, with limits, the Sublime deals with the formless, the limitless.  The Beautiful prompts us to admire quality, the Sublime, quantity.  The Sublime plunges us into a state where our metal capacities are compromised.  We are struck by formless, limitless magnitude.  There is tremendous pleasure here, but it only indirectly arises from this blinded amazement into which we are rendered.  We cannot remain scared of this feeling that arises in us, we must regain our reason, and then we see the Sublime as wondrous.  There is repulsion and attraction; its satisfaction is not negated, but transformed into negative pleasure.  This dual movement of repulsion and attraction demonstrates the sublime does have a subjective purposiveness. 
 
Purposiveness will become the a priori principle (the law that is known prior to any experience, and is akin to roles played by space and time and the categories in the 1st Critique) from Reason that permits reflective judgment to judge without a concept (that is, since the aesthetic is not a cognitive judgment (it lacks concepts), how could it function, by what fixed lines could it judge anything?).  This purposiveness is of Nature and can be represented through aesthetic (and teleological) judgments.  To be able to think the totality of infinity (what is prompted in the sublime encounter) demands a faculty in the mind that is supersensible; we come to discover that we can think the totality by indirection, which shown through our failure to think it.  It is aesthetic estimation of magnitude that tries to comprehend that which exceeds the capacity of the imagination to comprehend.

Now, let’s move through the text:

I) Textual Analysis: On the Analytic of the Sublime 

(Read in conjunction with §§23, 25, 28, Ross, pp. 113-20)

§23 Transition from the faculty which judges of the Beautiful to that which judges of the Sublime

Commonalities between the beautiful and sublime:
(1) both please in themselves  (yield mere, indeterminate satisfaction)
(2) neither are a judgment of sense
(3) neither are a logically determined judgment
(4) both are a judgment of reflection
(5) their satisfaction depends neither upon sensation (as in pleasant) nor concept (as in good)
(6) neither yield knowledge, but only feeling of pleasure
(7) both singular, yet universal judgments 
(8) both employ imagination in accord with and furthers the faculty of concepts in Understanding and Reason

Differences between the beautiful and sublime:

(1)
Beautiful: concerned with form of the object, has boundaries
Sublime: concerned with the formless, shows no boundaries yet invokes totality

(2)
Beautiful: presentation of an indefinite concept of the Understanding
Sublime: presentation of an indefinite concept of Reason

(3)
Beautiful: satisfaction bound up with quality 
Sublime: satisfaction bound up with quantity 

(4)
Beautiful: positive pleasure—pleasure directly tied to furtherance of life; compatible with charms and play of imagination (freies Spiel)
Sublime: negative pleasure—pleasure had indirectly through its challenge to our vital powers and our conquering this challenge; compatible with the exercise of imagination, which is antithesis to the free play of imagination

(5)
Beautiful: natural beauty has purposiveness in its form, which makes the object seem to be pre-adapted to our judgment
Sublime: seems to violate purpose in judgment, that is, it seems to be vehemently unsuitable for our capacity to judge and to do violence to imagination—and, from this, it is yet judged to be even more perfectly sublime  (he seems to say no purposiveness, but in §26, he affirms it does have such)

An object of nature, most properly speaking, is not sublime.  Objects of nature may be beautiful.  The “sublime object” is an object fit to receive the presentation of a sublimity where the sublimity is actually found in the mind.  No sensible form can properly contain the sublime.  
(but, this is only strictly speaking … we speak of sublime things and events, but this is how we speak … the sublime is the judgment in our minds)

[Sublimity is in the mind, not in an object, properly.  The sublime …] “This concerns only Ideas of the Reason, which, although no adequate presentation is possible for them, by this inadequacy that admits of sensible presentation, are aroused and summoned into the mind.  Thus the wide ocean, agitated by the storm, cannot be called sublime.  Its aspect is horrible; and the mind must be already filled with manifold Ideas if it is to be determined by such an intuition to a feeling itself sublime, as it is incited to abandon sensibility and to busy itself with Ideas that involve higher purposiveness” (§23).

(6)
Beautiful: has purposiveness (in nature and art) that extends our concept of nature (not our cognition of natural objects)
Sublime: lacks this extending aspect that leads one to objective principles and their corresponding forms in nature … instead, more so, nature excites ideas of sublime the most in its greatest chaos (p.63) (Again, he seems to say sublime has no purposiveness, but in §26, he affirms it does have such)

(7)
Beautiful: its study is more important because its purposiveness leads us to seek an external ground (after the internal presentation of the representation to Reason through imagination)  (it is form that is the ground of pleasure in presentations)
Sublime: its study is a “mere appendix to the aesthetical judging” because it does not lead to any presentation of form in nature beyond itself, it leads us only back to an inner ground within ourselves to find its cause (§23).
